# Murder-Rates
This project offers a brief analysis of murder rates in different cities in the United States in 2016. This was done as an introductory group project in a college class.

The data we analyzed is a report of the number of murders from 79 cities in the years 2015 and 2016. The data came from several sources, most of which were police departments (sources and dates can be found in the original data set). The original data set includes the name of the city, name of the state, number of murders in 2015, number of murders in 2016, the change between the two years, a source, and the source date. Additionally, we wanted information on the city populations, so in excel we added a new column for population and entered each city's respective information from 2016, as reported by the Census Bureau. These 8 columns are what were read into RStudio. An important note is that these are only the murders reported to/by the police, and there is potential for murders to have gone unreported. So, although these reported numbers are close, they likely do not capture every single murder in these cities. We can, however, use these numbers as a sample from which we can draw general assumptions and conclusions about murder rates across the country. Some questions we had prior to the start of our analysis included the following: which cities had the highest/lowest quantities of murders per year, which cities had the highest/lowest murder rates per year, which cities had the greatest/least change in murder rates. By analyzing which cities had the highest murder rates year to year, we can begin to focus on those cities and think about possible causes and potential solutions to the crime problems. Cities with extremely low murder rates can be looked to as a model on how to reduce murder rates in problem cities. By looking at the change in murder rates from one year to the next, we can analyze any improvements and failures in policing, legislation, or social behaviors that could account for lower or higher changes in murder rates. Some initial hypotheses we have include: 1) Larger cities will have higher murder rates per year, 2) Chicago, New York, and Los Angeles will have the highest murder rates per year, 3) Change in murder rates from 2015 to 2016 will be the greatest in small cities where policing and other measures to reduce murder have the most impact.


